How to test functions and webhooks (#774)
redwoodjs/redwoodjs.com: docs/serverlessFunctions.md

    }

    // divide the two numbers
    const quotient = parseInt(dividend) / parseInt(divisor)
    message = `${dividend} / ${divisor} = ${quotient}`

    // check if the numbers could be divided
    if (quotient === Infinity || isNaN(quotient)) {
      statusCode = 500
      message = `Sorry. Could not divide ${dividend} by ${divisor}`
      throw Error(message)
    }

    return {
      statusCode,
      body: {
        message,
        dividend,
        divisor,
        quotient,
      },
    }
  } catch (error) {
    return {
      statusCode,
      body: {
        message: error.message,
      },
    }
  }
}

```

Sure, you could launch a browser or use Curl os some other manual approach and try out various combinations to test the success and error cases, but we want to automate the tests as part of our app's CI.

That means we need to write some tests.
#### Function Unit Tests

To test a serverless function, you'll work with the test script associated with the function. You'll find it in the same directory as your function:

```terminals
api
├── src
│   ├── functions
│   │   ├── divide
│   │   │   ├── divide.ts
│   │   │   ├── divide.test.ts
```

The setup steps are to:

> * import your api testing utilities, such as `mockHttpEvent`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * import your function handler

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * write your test cases by mocking the event to contain the information you want to give the handler

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* write your test cases by mocking the event using `mockHttpEvent` to contain the information you want to give the handler
```

* invoke the handler with the mocked event
* extract the result body
* test that the values match what you expect

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The boilerplate steps are generated automatically for you by the function generator
```

First, let's write a test that divides 20 by 5 and we'll expect to get 4 as the quotient:

But, in some cases, for example when the function interacts with third parties, like sending email, or when it retrieves sensitive information from a database, you may want to ensure that only verified requests from trusted sources can invoke your function.
```javascript
// api/src/functions/divideBy/divide.test.ts

And, in some other cases, you may even want to limit how often the function is called over a set period of time to avoid denial-of-service-type attacks.
import { mockHttpEvent } from '@redwoodjs/testing/api'
import { handler } from './divide'

describe('divide serverless function',  () => {
  it('divides two numbers successfully', async () => {
    const httpEvent = mockHttpEvent({
      queryStringParameters: {
        dividend: '20',
        divisor: '5',
      },
    })

    const result = await handler(httpEvent, null)
    const body = result.body

    expect(result.statusCode).toBe(200)
    expect(body.message).toContain('=')
    expect(body.quotient).toEqual(4)
  })
```

Then we can also add a test to handle the error when we don't provide a dividend:

> ### Authentication

Reviewer: @dthyresson I removed this section until we update it with accurate information later

  divide serverless function
    ✓ divides two numbers successfully (153 ms)
    ✓ requires a dividend (48 ms)
    ✓ requires a divisor (45 ms)
    ✓ cannot divide by 0 (47 ms)

Test Suites: 1 passed, 1 total
Tests:       4 passed, 4 total
Snapshots:   0 total
Time:        13.155 s
Ran all test suites matching /divide.test.ts|divide.test.ts|false/i.
```

If the test fails, you can update your function or test script and the test will automatically re-run.

### How to Test Webhooks

[Webhooks](https://redwoodjs.com/docs/webhooks#webhooks) are specialized serverless functions that will verify a signature header to ensure you can trust the incoming request and use the payload with confidence.

> **Note:** Want to learn more about webhooks? See a [Detailed discussion of webhooks](https://redwoodjs.com/docs/webhooks) to find out how webhooks can give your app the power to create complex workflows, build one-to-one automation, and sync data between apps.

In the following example, we'll have the webhook interact with our app's database, so we can see how we can use **scenario testing** to create data that the handler can access and modify.

> >Why testing webhooks is hard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Why testing webhooks is hard**
```

  })
})

```

The `divide` function is a simple example, but you can use the `mockHttpEvent` to set any event values you handler needs to test more complex functions.

You can also `mockContext` and pass the mocked `context` to the handler and even create scenario data if your function interacts with your database. For an example of using scenarios when test functions, let's look at a specialized serverless function: the webhook.

#### Running Function Tests

To run an individual serverless function test:

```terminal
// cd into `api/src/divide/divide`
yarn rw test divide.test.ts    
```

When the test run completes (and succeeds), you see the results:

```terminal
 PASS   api  api/src/functions/divide/divide.test.ts (12.69 s)
  divide serverless function
    ✓ divides two numbers successfully (153 ms)
    ✓ requires a dividend (48 ms)
    ✓ requires a divisor (45 ms)
    ✓ cannot divide by 0 (47 ms)

Test Suites: 1 passed, 1 total
Tests:       4 passed, 4 total
Snapshots:   0 total
Time:        13.155 s
Ran all test suites matching /divide.test.ts|divide.test.ts|false/i.

Active Filters: filename /divide.test.ts|divide.test.ts|false/
 › Press c to clear filters.

> Watch Usage

Reviewer: Do you think we could remove line 259-260? And the same in the webhooks one?

Author: Yup. I meant to but forgot.

 › Press a to run all tests.
 › Press f to run only failed tests.
 › Press o to only run tests related to changed files.
 › Press p to filter by a filename regex pattern.
 › Press t to filter by a test name regex pattern.
 › Press q to quit watch mode.
 › Press Enter to trigger a test run.
```

If the test fails, you can update your function or test script and the test will automatically re-run.

### How to Test Webhooks

[Webhooks](https://redwoodjs.com/docs/webhooks#webhooks) are specialized serverless functions that will verify a signature header to ensure you can trust the incoming request and use the payload with confidence.

> Note: Want to learn more about webhooks? See a [Detailed discussion of webhooks](https://redwoodjs.com/docs/webhooks) to find out how webhooks can give your app the power to create complex workflows, build one-to-one automation, and sync data between apps.

> Because your webhook is typically sent from a third-party's system, manually testing webhooks can be difficult. For one thing, you often have to create some kind of event in their system that will trigger the event -- and you'll often have to do that in a production environment with real data. Second, for each case you'll have to find data that represents each case and issue a hook for each -- which can take a lot of time and is tedious. Also, you'll be using production secrets to sign the payload. And finally, since your third-party needs to send you the incoming webhook you'll most likely have to launch a local tunnel to expose your development machine publicly in order to receive them. 

Reviewer: Maybe put this in a highlight block? 
> **Why testing webhooks is hard**
> Because your webhook is typically sent from a third-party's system, manually testing webhooks can be difficult. For one thing, you often have to create some kind of event in their system that will trigger the event -- and you'll often have to do that in a production environment with real data. Second, for each case you'll have to find data that represents each case and issue a hook for each -- which can take a lot of time and is tedious. Also, you'll be using production secrets to sign the payload. And finally, since your third-party needs to send you the incoming webhook you'll most likely have to launch a local tunnel to expose your development machine publicly in order to receive them. 
	

> Instead, we can automate and mock the webhook to contain a signed payload that we can use to test the handler.

Author: That's better. Yes.

Instead, we can automate and mock the webhook to contain a signed payload that we can use to test the handler.

> By writing these tests, you cam iterate and work on implementing the webhook logic much faster and easier because you don't have to rely on a third party to send you data, or having to setup tunnelling, or triggering events on the external system or service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By writing these tests, you can iterate and implement the webhook logic much faster and easier without having to rely on a third party to send you data, or setting up tunnelling, or triggering events on the external system or service.
```

> In the following example, we'll also have the webhook interact with our app's database, so we can see how we can use scenario testing to create data that the handler can access and modify.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, we'll also have the webhook interact with our app's database, so we can see how we can use **scenario testing** to create data that the handler can access and modify.
```

For our webhook test example, we'll create a webhook that updates a Order's Status by looking up the order by its Tracking Number and then updating the status to by Delivered (if our rules allow it).

Because we'll be interacting with data, our app has an `Order` model defined in the Prisma schema that has a unique `trackingNumber` and `status`:

```js
// /api/db/schema.prisma

model Order {
  id             Int      @id @default(autoincrement())
  createdAt      DateTime @default(now())
  updatedAt      DateTime @updatedAt
  trackingNumber String   @unique

>   status         String   @default("UNKNOWN")

Reviewer: No need to change this right now, we can pair on it tomorrow if need be, but what do you think of changing this to an Enum? Here's an example from the tape codebase

```js
//prisma schema
model TapePlan {
  id               String             @id @default(cuid())
  //.
  //.
  TapeSubscription TapeSubscription[]
}

enum SubscriptionStatus {
  ACTIVE
  DORMANT
  TRIALING
  FAILED_PAYMENT
}
```

And you can use it like this:

```js
import { SubscriptionStatus } from '@prisma/client'

/*
.
. */

if (
updatedSubscription.status === SubscriptionStatus.DORMANT
) {
// do some stuff
}

```

Author: I was going to use an Enum, but they are not supported by SQLite.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1051633/129257788-0cbd02fe-044e-48af-9dc6-72db506a2ca4.png)

Author: Which is a shame, because it fits so well here. Maybe I'll make a note.

Reviewer: Oh gotcha... good point.

  @@unique([trackingNumber, status])
}
```

> Our function is called `updateOrderStatus` and exists in the `api/src/functions` directory along with the tests and scenario scripts:

Reviewer: Maybe replace this section with - 

Let's generate our webhook function:
```
yarn rw generate function updateOrderStatus
```

        break
      default:
        currentOrderStatus = 'UNKNOWN'
    }

    // updated the order with the new status using the trackingNumber provided
    const order = await db.order.update({
      where: { trackingNumber_status: {trackingNumber, status: currentOrderStatus }},
      data: { status: status },
    })

    return {
      statusCode: 200, // Success!!!
      body: JSON.stringify({
        order,
        message: `Updated order ${order.id} to ${order.status} at ${order.updatedAt}`
      }),
    }
  } catch (error) {
    if (error instanceof WebhookVerificationError) {
      return {
        statusCode: 401, // Unauthorized
      }
    } else {
      return {
        statusCode: 500, // An error
        body: JSON.stringify({
          error: error.message,
          message: `Unable to update the order status`
        }),
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### Webhook Test Scenarios

Since our `updateOrderStatus` webhook will query an order by its tracking number and then attempt to update its status, we'll want to seed our test run with some scenario data that helps us have records we can use to test that the webhook does what we expect it to in each situation.

> Let's create three orders for with different status: places, shipped, and delivered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's create three orders for with different status: `places`, `shipped`, and `delivered`.
```

}
```

> #### Running Webhook Tests

Reviewer: I think you meant to have this above the security section?

To run an individual webhook test:

```terminal

> // cd into `api/src/functions/updateOrderStatus`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> yarn rw test updateOrderStatus.test.ts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
yarn rw test api updateOrderStatus
```
